_External Programs_ is updated to v2.0.0! You can find the changelog below.

[README][] file now has a workflow diagram which you should see to better understand
the latest architecture of this plugin:

```
   "source"     -->     "through"      -->  "executable" (*) -->     "output"     -->  "destination"
---------------     -----------------       ----------------     ----------------     ----------------
"selected_text"          "stdin"              string|array         "stdout" (d)       "insert_replace"
 "file_name"        "single_argument"                            "temporary_file"      "output_panel"
  "file_uri"        "temporary_file"                                                     "phantom"
  "text_uri"

                                *: required
                                d: default
```

__New features:__

-   You can now specify arguments to your commands like:

        "executable": ["format-text", "--param", "value"]

    or even use special variables in your arguments:

        "executable": ["format-text", "--file", "$file"],

    Refer to the [README][] to see a list of all the special variables.

-   If `destination` is _not_ `insert_replace` and the command output is empty
    string, plugin now outputs a placeholder (`[no output]`) to the destination to
    eliminate confusion.

-   You can now use `phantom` for `destination`.

-   You can now use `temporary_file` for `through` and `output`. It's useful if a
    command accepts only a path as argument. `temporary_file` will write input to a
    temporary file in the `Packages` folder and submit its path to the command.
    Temporary file will be deleted automatically after the job. More details are in
    the [README][].

-   `source:selected_text` now reads whole buffer if there is no selection.

-   New settings: `panel_syntax`, `panel_word_wrap`

-   Commands are now run asynchronously. They don't block UI. When the `destination`
    is `insert_replace`, modifying the buffer or selections aborts the command to
    display results (actual program is not aborted).

-   A spin animation is now played in the status bar to indicate running of a command.

__Changes:__

-   Default timeout is now 10 seconds (previously 3).

__Breaking changes:__

-   `build_like` command is removed. You can now use special variables in your
    regular commands.

-   `nothing` keyword is removed. If you're currently using one of `destination:
    nothing`, `source: nothing` or `though: nothing`; just remove the whole phrase
    for the same effect.

[README]: https://github.com/Hibou57/External-Programs-ST3/
